Welcome to the Python
course and welcome to this
fresh new section.
So in the last section we talk
about comprehensions and I'm
pretty sure you are now impressed
that all right, I get it.
A lot of things I understand
and eventually as you will write
more production level code, you will
understand them much better.
No need of too much practicing it.
The theory, knowledge that you
have, the code we have written
together, that's enough.
Now let's move into generators.
Now generators is also
a very interesting concept.
It's not as difficult
as comprehension.
It's relatively easy.
You just have to train your
brain that what's the difference
between a regular function
as well as a generator.
Now whenever there's a generator,
always remember one thing which
is we are generating things
in the function or in the loop.
We just get the result immediately.
So everything is loaded up
in the memory, in the loops
or other functions.
But when you design generators
you get one value at a time.
So it's very memory optimized,
it doesn't do all the thing at once.
It's actually very optimized
in certain cases.
But this doesn't mean we are going
to replace the whole functions
with the generators.
They do have their need and
sometimes they are super
helpful, super useful and
especially if you're working
with fast API or anything like
that, it's helpful, it's
useful, but not always.
So always keep in mind there is a way
of how things are being done
or there is a use case factor
always associated with that.
So with this, let me take you
up on the screen and we're going
to go ahead and talk about
the generators one by one.
So let's go ahead and expand this.
There we go, nice and easy.
And we are here with the new
topic, let's name this up.
So generator or generators?
These are pretty fun and
interesting topic and couple of
things you always have to
remember whenever we are talking
about the generators, a couple of
things you are going to see as
special terms but one of the most
common term that we see all
around the places is yield.
This is a keyword just like we have
for keyword but generators
are always, always going to come
up with the yield as a keyword.
Now the most important part
that you should always remember
about generators is first
of all you save memory.
So that's the part one, another part
is some times you don't want
the results results as immediately.
Hope I wrote that correct.
So you don't want
the result immediately.
And the most important part is lazy.
Evaluation.
There we go.
Hope I wrote that correct.
But if I did a typo,
please excuse me on that.
These are the three most
important keyword points of,
generators, but not the only one.
There are other use cases as
well, but these are more than enough
for us to understand
and remember that how it works.
So I think the better way of doing
this is to simply go ahead and write
some code that is always I love.
So let me take you on this and we'll
just close all these things.
We don't need this.
We are now into 08.
That's pretty fun.
Nope, not here.
And there we go.
So this one is 08
underscore generators.
And we'll start with the basics.
So we'll call this1 as 01basics.
I don't know what else
to call this one.
Shouldn't be basics.
Where is our extension?
Forgot that py.
All right, so the way how you
define the generators, they look
exactly same as functions.
So if I go ahead and use, if I go
ahead, oh, I, I can expand this.
If I go ahead and say, hey,
this is my definition.
I call this one as serve chai.
And there we go.
Just like that.
Yeah, this is your generator.
So what do you mean by having
a generator just like that?
The only difference that comes
up is how you provide
a value in the function.
We simply go ahead and say
return the value that it does.
But in the world of generators,
you actually use
the keyword which is yield.
So it yields one value at a time.
So for example, I go ahead
and say this is my cup one.
And the cup one says masala chai.
Similarly, we have this one again.
So let's just say this is cup two.
This time we are saying ginger chai.
Another one.
What else?
Eli Chichai forgotten I.
And this is my cup three.
And there could be more.
So what do you think how this
function will, go ahead and work?
So if I go ahead and say, let's
just say I'm having a stall.
And in this stall I
call this servechai.
And this method executes, if it would
be a regular function, we would be
looking for a keyword return that
this return will give me the value.
But here I'm confused whether
it will be Cup 1, Cup
2, Cup 3, or all of them.
It could be all of them as well.
So for this, let's go ahead
and print this and you will see some
strange result for cup in.
And let's just go
ahead and say stall.
And here's the interesting part
and where people also get confused.
If I go ahead and work like this,
you might be expecting, okay, I'm
getting all the values, probably
this stall gets all the values
and then I'm looping through it.
Don't worry, we'll get that.
Investigative study is one
of the best study where you actually
take a moment to think about what
will happen, what is about to
happen, and then you work with that.
So let's just say Python 3.
We have one file and we can see,
all right, there is no difference.
I'm getting all the value
in the result, but what's happening
is in the memory itself,
behind the scene, how it happens.
So if I go ahead and take a copy of
this, let's go ahead and paste this.
So this is my function that I have,
and this function is actually,
getting called by technically
this whole piece of code.
So let's go ahead and get this
whole piece of code as well.
There we go.
So what happens in this
as soon as you come up here?
This stall is actually just keeping
a reference of this whole thing.
It's not actually
using it immediately.
The moment you actually run this
loop, then it
actually goes ahead and use.
So for the first iteration
of the loop, it's going
to refer to this value.
For the second iteration it's going
And for the third iteration, this
is going to refer to this value.
The only difference is in the memory.
So yield actually pauses the function
and resume the function on the next
call, but exactly from that point
where it has stopped in the past.
And what's the difference between,
having a normal
function and regular function?
Pretty good.
And can I show you
the difference between them?
Because right now
it's not very clear.
It looks all the same.
All right, I get this.
Let's create a normal
function for this.
First, let's just say
we have get chai list.
And this is my chai list.
There we go.
And I simply go ahead and say
this is return and it returns
you an array which has.
Let's just call this one as cup one
and this will be cup two.
Oops.
And there we go, we have cup three.
All right, no problem.
This is our regular function.
A similar function could be
generator function as well.
I'll write a comment.
This one is generator function
and I simply say def get chai.
But this is actually gen
generator function.
And instead of just returning
it like this, what we
do is we yield the values.
Yield.
And this time we are
yielding cup one.
Then we go ahead and duplicate this.
Yield two and yield three.
There we go.
Nice and easy.
So the difference is one just uses
the word return, one uses this.
So how we're going to use this,
Let me show you that how
it's actually being done.
So if I go ahead and simply
say that hey, I want to get
chai and this chai will be
coming up, from get chai gen.
Did we call it as get?
We should be calling it as gen,
not get get chai gen.
And there we go.
First of all, let's print
the value as it is so that we can
actually verify what's actually
getting printed here.
Can we comment this?
Yes, we can comment this.
We don't need it now.
All right, let's see the value
and let's see the result.
It says what you're getting is
a generator object and you
are just holding a reference.
As I told you, this is just actually
pointing to this whole method.
So this is just a reference
that we are holding.
Nothing more, nothing less.
Now what if I want
to print the values?
If you want to go ahead and print
the values, then you have to
actually use a method known as Next.
You simply go ahead and say, hey, I
have the reference, but next I want
to run this function once and want
to see what's the value of it.
So for this we have to explicitly
pass it inside this next method.
And you will be surprised to know
that this function will now run
and whatever the first value you are
yielding, you will get that value.
So if I run this again,
notice it says cup one.
Now as soon as the cup one
comes, this is where you are
right now at this cup one and.
And your method is now
on the pause state.
It has not exited.
It's still in the memory.
It's not executing or calculating
all the things at once.
It just has executed once.
First yield value is with you.
But now the function is paused
whenever you actually call the next
next time it actually keeps track
everything in the memory.
And the next time it will just go
ahead and give you the second result
which you are yielding.
So for this, if I go ahead and print
this again, notice this time
the cup won for the first result.
But if I print this, notice
the function resumes
exactly where you left it.
If you go ahead and print it again,
this is how we get the cup three.
But what if I go ahead
and print it again?
That's interesting.
Notice here it says stop iteration.
You cannot keep on passing
me the next because
I'm done yielding the values.
I can only yield three values.
So you can run this
function only three times.
And maybe that's an explicit maybe
this is exactly what you want,
but you have to keep in mind that
what's important and what's not.
I'll just comment this one because
this is going to produce this error.
So we'll just say gives error
so that you get the notes
and everything for you.
So I hope this portion of where
we studied about the generator,
we found them interesting.
They're very interesting and as
you will write more
of the use cases, especially
connecting with the database closing
the database connections.
This generator is actually
super useful and you'll see them
quite a lot in the fastapi
that is it for this video.
Let's catch up in the next one.